.TH pytqlupdate 1 "18 October 2001" "Trolltech AS" \" -*- nroff -*-
.\"
.\" Copyright 2001 Trolltech AS.  All rights reserved.
.\" Copyright 2004 Ricardo Cardenes.  All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" This file may be distributed and/or modified under the terms of the
.\" GNU General Public License version 2 as published by the Free Software
.\" Foundation and appearing in the file LICENSE.GPL included in the
.\" packaging of this file.
.\"
.\" This file is provided AS IS with NO WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, INCLUDING THE
.\" WARRANTY OF DESIGN, MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.
.\"
.\" See http://www.trolltech.com/gpl/ for GPL licensing information.
.\"
.SH NAME
pytqlupdate \- update TQt Linguist translation files from Python sources
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B pytqlupdate
.RI "[ " options " ] " project-file...
.SH DESCRIPTION
This page documents the
.B TQt Linguist Update
tool for the TQt GUI toolkit, for Python source files.
.B PyTQLupdate
reads a tqmake project file (.pro file), finds the translatable
strings in the specified source, header and interface files, and
updates the translation files (.ts files) specified in it. The
translation files are given to the translator who uses
.B TQt Linguist
to read the files and insert the translations.
.PP
The .ts file format is a simple human-readable XML format that can be
used with version control systems if required.
.PP
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.I "-help"
Display the usage and exit.
.TP
.I "-noobsolete"
Drop all obsolete strings.
.TP
.I "-verbose"
Explain what is being done.
.TP
.I "-version"
Display the version of
.B pylupdate
and exit.
.SH USAGE
Here is an example .pro file that can be given to
.B pylupdate:
.PP
.in +4
.nf
SOURCES         = funnydialog.py \\
                  main.py \\
                  wackywidget.py
FORMS           = fancybox.ui
TRANSLATIONS    = gnomovision_dk.ts \\
                  gnomovision_fi.ts \\
                  gnomovision_no.ts \\
                  gnomovision_se.ts
.fi
.in -4
.PP
When running
.B pytqlupdate
on this project file, the translatable strings in all the files
listed in the SOURCES and FORMS entries will be put in
the translation files listed in the TRANSLATIONS entry. Previous
translations will be reused as far as possible, and translated
strings that have vanished from the source files are marked obsolete.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR tqlupdate (1),
.BR tqlrelease (1)
and
.BR http://doc.trolltech.com/i18n.html
.SH AUTHOR
This manual page was written by Ricardo J. Cárdenes Medina
for the Debian GNU/Linux System (but may be used by others), based
on Trolltech's <info@trolltech.com> manual page for lupdate
